the Stegosaurus everyone knows what it
looked like but why did it have those
kite-shaped plates on its back
Stegosaurus was first discovered in
Colorado in the USA in 1877 and
translates literally as roofed lizard
because originally the strange plates on
its back were thought to have laid flat
forming a sort of roof over the animal
perhaps to shelter it from rain a bit
like a prehistoric umbrella today that
idea seems crazy scientists now agree
that plates were arranged in two rows
down the Stegosaurus is back but there's
still a lot of debate about exactly what
they were used for some have suggested
that the plates were used as armor
giving protection from its main predator
the vicious terrifying and bloodthirsty
Allosaurus who liked nothing more than a
Stegosaurus steak for supper others
think that the plates were used to
regulate its body temperature blushing
red with blood to lose heat on a hot day
when the Sun is burning down over the
prehistoric earth or gathering the heat
from the Sun to warm up on a cool day
like wearable solar panels for dinosaurs
further groups of paleontologists
believe the plates were used as signals
to other stegosauruses perhaps the
male's used them to attract the ladies
impressing them with their size and
color or they were signaling to weather
stegosauruses nearby just how strong and
powerful they were much like how deer
use their antlers today after 100 years
of debating their use most scientists
now think that the plates may have been
used for a mixture of these reasons a
bit of defending from vicious predators
a bit of thermal regulation to deal with
the extreme hot or bitter cold and
mostly showing off to impress the other
stegosauruses one thing scientists do
agree on is that despite its impressive
looks and impressive size measuring up
to 9 metres long and weighing nearly 5
tonnes
Stegosaurus wasn't the sharpest tool in
the box inside its head was a brain no
bigger than that of a modern-day kitten
so we wonder what would have happened if
he came across a ball of wool I guess
we'll never know tell us if you do